Contact
8870118297 (Mobile)
samsonanil2265@gmail.com

www.linkedin.com/in/samsonanil
(LinkedIn)
encounteringsaviour.wordpress.com
(Blog)

Top Skills
MEMS based sensors for medical
applications.
Nanosensors for medical
applications.
Biomedical Devices

Languages
Tamil (Elementary)
Hindi (Native or Bilingual)
English (Full Professional)

Certifications
Introduction to Doppler
Writing a Compelling Blog Post
Sensors and Actuators - IISc
Bangalore 
CT Scanner Hardware Training.
Machine Learning for all 

Patents
Prosthetic Lower Limb without Brain
Interference for Amputees.

 

 

 

Samson Anil

Certified Siemens Healthineer | Aspiring Biomedical Engineer
Coimbatore

Summary
An energetic, ambitious person who has developed a mature and
responsible approach to any task I undertake, or situation I am
presented with. As a student with three years of experience in the
field of biomedical Engineering, I am excellent in working with others
to achieve a certain objective on time and with excellence. 
My interest lies in Sensors for biomedical applications, MEMS
based sensors for medical diagnosis especially in the field of cancer
treatment and Medical Diagnostic and Imaging Devices.

Experience

Siemens Healthineers
Online Trainee
June 2020 - Present (3 months)
India

Edggi
Content Writer
July 2020 - August 2020 (2 months)

Bangalore Baptist Hospital
Biomedical Engineering Intern
June 2019 - June 2019 (1 month)
Hebbal, Bangalore
Worked as an Intern in the Biomedical Department of Bangalore Baptist
Hospital which is unit of CMC (Christian Medical College), Vellore for a period
of two weeks. This internship provided me with profound knowledge in the
recent advancements and cutting edge technologies used in Biomedical Field
for Medical Image Diagnosis like (MRI imaging, CT imaging, X-ray Imaging
and Ultrasound imaging), Major OT equipments, Catherization Lab and other
departments such as Radiology, Oncology, Orthopedics and Neonatal care.

Harvard Medical School
Hackathon Participant

Page 1 of 2

 

 

 

February 2019 - February 2019 (1 month)
Participated in an International Symposium on Surgical Innovations &
Hackathon conducted in Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences in
collaboration with Harvard Medical School and Boston Children's Hospital. The
main speakers included renowned Doctors and Professionals in Healthcare
Field from around the world. Also, participants of this Hackathon included
Doctors and leading healthcare professionals from around the country. 
Our team of 5 put forth an idea of building a mobile application especially for
people in rural India for providing essential and emergency medical services
where people are deprived of basic internet connectivity.

Boston Children's Hospital
Hackathon Participant 
February 2019 - February 2019 (1 month)
Participated in an International Symposium on Surgical Innovations &
Hackathon conducted in Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences in
collaboration with Harvard Medical School and Boston Children's Hospital. The
main speakers included renowned Doctors and Professionals in Healthcare
Field from around the world. Also, participants of this Hackathon included
Doctors and leading healthcare professionals from around the country. 
Our team of 5 put forth an idea of building a mobile application especially for
people in rural India for providing essential and emergency medical services
where people are deprived of basic internet connectivity.

Education
Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences
BTech - Bachelor of Technology, Biomedical/Medical
Engineering · (2017 - 2021)

St Marys School
Science Stream, CBSE - XIIth · (2016 - 2017)

St Marys School
CBSE - Xth  · (2014 - 2015)

Page 2 of 2

