Contact
9952168340 (Mobile)
sarveshagrawal@karunya.edu.
in

www.linkedin.com/in/sarvesh1523
(LinkedIn)
sarveshagrawal.tech (Personal)

Top Skills
Python (Programming Language)
Machine Learning
Deep Learning

Languages
Hindi (Native or Bilingual)
English (Full Professional)

Certifications
PadhAI - Deep Learning course
completion
Machine Learning

 

 

 

Sarvesh Agrawal

|| MLOps || DevOps Assembly Line || RHEL8 || Deep Learning ||
Machine Learning || Full Stack Developer (MEAN)
Bengaluru

Summary
Presently in 8th Sem working as a Artificial Intelligence Intern at
Triquetra Healthcare and Technology Pvt Ltd, Bangalore,  aspiring to
work as a AI/ML Engineer on real time projects in Startup.

Experience

NeuralMinds - Data Science Club
Public Relations Volunteer
April 2020 - Present (5 months)
Bengaluru, Karnataka
NeuralMinds is Bangalore's AI community with a focus on Data Science
and Artificial Intelligence. We're also the ambassador of Andrew Ng's
deeplearning.ai and sponsored by Indegene's Data Science Team as part of
the AOTC initiative. We will host monthly Meetups, Webinars, and Workshops
at a conference level, extraordinary experience exchange and focus on
community.

KarunyaHacks
Associate Board of Directors
November 2018 - Present (1 year 10 months)
Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu
KarunyaHacks which is a student-run organization in Karunya Institute of
Technology and Science. We conduct workshops, hackathons, and technical
events for the betterment of the student community.

Triquetra Healthcare and Technology Pvt Ltd
Artificial Intelligence Intern
December 2019 - May 2020 (6 months)
Bengaluru, Karnataka
I have refined my strengths over the months of internship and my technical
expertise includes cross-platform proficiency. The following is a snapshot of
my broader technical skills :-
+ Web Crawling and Web Scraping to create data for the training model.

Page 1 of 2

 

 

 

+ Research and Develop Deep Learning models based on CNN, RNN for
wakeword detection.
+ Hyper-parameter Tuning for improvising the conduct of the model.
+ Connecting DL model for wake word detection on stream of audio.
+ Implementation of acoustic filtering technique for enhancing the quality of
audio.
+ Developed a basic RESTful API service for the application.
+ Designed database(MongoDB) structure for the application.
+ Developed 256bit AES Encryption with random key generator for securing
the audio stream.

Education
Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences
Bachelor of Technology - BTech, Computer Science · (2016 - 2020)

M G M Senior Secondary School, Bhilai
HSC, Engineering Graphics · (2015 - 2016)

M.G.M Senior Secondary School
SSC, Mathematics · (2013 - 2014)

Page 2 of 2

