 

 

 

Contact
akash.ravikumar12@gmail.com

www.linkedin.com/in/akash-
ravikumar-40301589 (LinkedIn)

Akash Ravikumar

Manager at EinNel Technologies - IoT & AI Team
Chennai

Top Skills
Matlab
Research
Team Management

Languages
Hindi
English
Tamil

Summary
Currently working as Manager for IoT and AI team at EinNel
Technologies. Knowledge in hardware interfacing and programming.
Worked on hardware protocols such as UART, SPI, I2C and a little
in CAN. Also worked on communication protocols such as TCP,
UDP and MQTT. Posses knowledge in uploading data into and
querying from various databases (including amazon db's) using
python and m-scripting. Developed PoC hardware that can perform
edge computing using data from sensor or from other means. 

Posses knowledge in image processing and signal processing and
use those features to provide artificial intelligence to the hardware
using machine learning and deep learning. Has knowledge and
worked on various classification and regression type problems
and built models using both machine learning and deep learning
algorithm. 

Has worked on Health care IoT for adults and infants and have
developed PoC hardware that can perform edge computing, which
involves acquiring various vitals from human body via sensors and
developed ML models to distinguish various noises made by the
patient. Programmed hardware to make API calls to control it in from
anywhere and also to update its health status and sensor working
status. Worked on IIoT projects for providing safety to personals
at shop floor and also to provide solution for machine idling time
calculation for better productivity and fraud identification. Designed
and programmed custom attendance management system for
workers. Worked on projects related to Automotive field by building
PoC hardware for an autonomous car. performed data analytics
for Multi-Disciplinary optimization in full vehicle level. Developed
Algorithm for fleet management system by acquiring data from the
ECU, image processing and machine learning.
Strong team player with technical knowledge, interpersonal skills &
managerial skills helped me get promoted to the position I'm at now. 

Page 1 of 2

 

 

 

Holds Masters Degrees in Electronics Engineering from KTU,
Kaunas, Lithuania.

Experience

EinNel Technologies
3 years 8 months
Project Manager
February 2018 - Present (2 years 7 months)
Chennai Area, India

Associate Software Developer
January 2017 - January 2018 (1 year 1 month)
Chennai Area, India

Education
Kaunas University of Technology
Master's degree, Electronics Engineering · (2014 - 2016)

Anna University
Bachelors in Engineering, Electronics and Communication
Engineering · (2010 - 2014)

Page 2 of 2

