Contact
jason.brownlee05@gmail.com

www.linkedin.com/in/
jasonbrownlee (LinkedIn)

Top Skills
Data Science
Deep Learning
Machine Learning

Honors-Awards
Australian Computer Society Student
Award
Aspect Scholarship Prize
Australian Postgraduate Award
Scholarship
Complex Intelligent Systems
Laboratory Summer Scholarship
1st Prize, AI-Depot Artificial
Intelligence Writing Competition

Publications
Mobile Game Engines: Interviews
with Mobile Game Engine
Developers
Master Machine Learning Algorithms
Probability for Machine Learning
Clever Algorithms: Nature-Inspired
Programming Recipes
Better Deep Learning

 

 

 

Jason Brownlee

Making Developers Awesome at Machine Learning
Greater Melbourne Area

Summary
Jason Brownlee, Ph.D. is a machine learning specialist who teaches
developers how to get results with modern machine learning and
deep learning methods via hands-on tutorials.

Experience

Machine Learning Mastery
Founding Researcher
November 2013 - Present (6 years 10 months)
Melbourne, Australia
Machine Learning Mastery is a community that offers 1,000+ tutorials and
19+ eBooks to help developers get started and get good at applied machine
learning.

Machine learning is taught using a highly productive top-down and results-
focused approach that is counter to the math-heavy academic approach taken
by the rest of the industry.

Learn more: http://MachineLearningMastery.com

Selected Ebook Titles:
+ Imbalanced Classification with Python, 2020
+ Generative Adversarial Networks with Python, 2019.
+ Deep Learning for Computer Vision, 2019.
+ Deep Learning for Time Series Forecasting, 2018.
+ Deep Learning For Natural Language Processing, 2017.
+ Long Short-Term Memory Networks With Python, 2017.
+ Deep Learning With Python, 2016.
+ XGBoost With Python, 2016.

And many more.

Bureau of Meteorology

Page 1 of 6

 

 

 

Senior Software Engineer
March 2010 - May 2016 (6 years 3 months)
Melbourne, Australia
Development and support of tropical cyclone forecasting systems used by
severe weather meteorologists in Australia and the South Pacific for analysis
and warnings. 

Senior member of the high impact weather systems development team and
collaborated with meteorologists, policy and research scientists on projects.
Specialty in modeling systems, ensembles, and interactive forecasting
tools. Agile engineering practices such as test-driven development, pair
programming, and continuous integration.

+ Responsible for ongoing development and maintenance of desktop software
used by severe weather forecasters for forecasting tropical cyclones on Linux
with Swing/Java/Oracle. Highlights include the addition of ensemble support
and interactive intensity forecasting tool.
+ Responsible for internal tools such as email summaries of live products and
a web-based system to present statistical summaries of cyclone data and
model verification statistics.
+ Responsible for the operationalization, maintenance, and verification of
server-side ensemble model to forecast the probability of wind above wind
speed thresholds in FORTRAN/Java/BASH (DeMaria and Knaff 2009 model).
+ Responsible for the extension of the ensemble wind probability model for use
in storm surge modeling involving multivariate statistical analysis and linear
algebra in FORTRAN/LAPACK (Kepert 2014 model).
+ Responsible for support of software systems for tsunami analysis and
warning in Australia and the Indian Ocean with Linux/IDL.
+ Responsible for supporting and maintaining the international standard for
describing cyclone tracks in XML called Cyclone XML (CXML).
+ Responsible for supporting and visiting severe weather meteorologists at
field locations in Australia and in the South Pacific.

Selected Publications:
+ Estimating TC Wind Probabilities in the Australian Region, 2013.

MobileGameEngines.com
Founding Writer
2012 - 2014 (2 years)
Melbourne, Australia

Page 2 of 6

 

 

 

Design and development of a website, interviews, and series of books on
game engines and game engine developers for mobile platforms including
Apple and Android.

+ Responsible for development and support of the website on Heroku/Ruby-
on-rails.
+ Responsible for interviewing mobile game developers and mobile game
engine developers.
+ Responsible for editing and writing two books on the industry of mobile game
development.

Selected Publications: 
+ Mobile Game Engines: Interviews With Mobile Game Developers, 2012.
+ Mobile Game Engines: Interviews With Mobile Game Engine Developers,
2013.

Clever Computations
Founding Consultant
2010 - 2014 (4 years)
Melbourne, Australia
Consulting services involving the analysis of customer behavior and
interventions for software-as-a-service (SaaS) businesses.

+ Responsible for data gathering, filtering and cleaning from client
stakeholders.
+ Responsible for the application of statistical and machine learning modeling
of client data.
+ Responsible for the interpretation and presentation of results and suggestion
of interventions.
+ Wrote, released and marketed a book on stochastic optimization methods
with code examples in the Ruby programming language. Code and book
released under an open source license.

Selected Publications:
+ Clever Algorithms: Nature-Inspired Programming Recipes, 2011.

AOS Group
Research Engineer
January 2009 - February 2010 (1 year 2 months)
Melbourne, Australia

Page 3 of 6

 

 

 

Research and development (R&D) into the use of multi-agent systems for
applications in aviation and defense. Domestic and international clients such
as the Australian Defence Science and Technology Organisation (DSTO) and
Northrop Grumman Corporation.

+ Responsible for technical pre-sales meetings on the applicability of agent
and multi-agent technologies with clients, on site.
+ Responsible for the development and presentation of multi-agent based
solutions to complex defense problems.
+ Responsible for development of a clean-room implementation of a Belief-
Desired-Intentions (BDI) agent architecture in ANSI C.

Mayhem Method
Cofounding Engineer
2008 - 2008 (less than a year)
Melbourne, Australia
Strategy and engineering for a range of small direct to consumer SaaS
websites.

+ Responsible for the formation of the project team.
+ Responsible for development and maintenance of Web/Ruby-on-Rails
software as a service (SaaS) applications.
+ Responsible for the content marketing of the business and applications.

Websites Included:
+ A Bit of Pluck (mobile meetup, from a startup camp 2008)
+ Spicy Elephant (flash cards)
+ Screen Sponge (movie tracking and lending)
+ Comment is King (online conversation consolidation)
+ Five Second Test (usability test, now owned by UsabilityHub)

The Portland House Group Pty. Ltd.
Research Engineer
2006 - 2006 (less than a year)
Melbourne, Australia
Development of systems with stochastic optimization algorithms (genetic
algorithms) for the purposes of optimizing stock portfolios.

+ Responsible for developing systems for data ingestion and retrieval.

Page 4 of 6

 

 

 

Shine Technologies
Consultant
2000 - 2004 (4 years)
Melbourne, Australia
Enterprise software development for corporate clients, mostly in teams and on-
site. Specialty in Linux, backend engineering and scalable server-side systems
with multi-threading. 

Adoption of early agile engineering practices such as pair-programming,
extreme programming, test-driven development and more.

+ Responsible for developing and maintaining a webmail system on Linux/
PHP/MySQL/LDAP with IMAP/Horde to support multiple domains (Spotlight
Online).
+ Responsible for documenting internal high-throughput multithreading library
with Java/Multithreading.
+ Responsible for developing internal developer tools for database code
generation with Java/Swing (Tru Energy/EnergyAustralia).
+ Responsible for prototyping machine learning-based anomaly detection for
statement verification (Tru Energy/EnergyAustralia).
+ Responsible for and reports and tutorials on emerging Java technologies
(e.g. Java Struts web framework).
+ Responsible for developing and maintaining a Payment Gateway on Tomcat/
JSP/Java/Struts (Loyalty Pacific/FlyBuys).
+ Responsible for developing a self-managed super fund web application Java/
JSP/Struts (Australian Clearing Services).
+ Responsible for developing a multi-threaded high-throughput query
processor on Java, Java Messaging Service (JMS), Sun One App Server, and
RMI interfacing Yellow Pages and White Pages data stores (Sensis/Telstra).

Education
Swinburne University of Technology
Doctor of Philosophy - PhD, Artificial Intelligence · (2005 - 2008)

Swinburne University of Technology
Master's degree, Artificial Intelligence · (2003 - 2004)

Swinburne University of Technology
Bachelor's Degree, Applied Science (Computing) · (2002)

Page 5 of 6

 

 

 

RMIT University
Course, Introduction to Psychology · (2003)

RMIT University
Advanced Diploma, Information Technology · (2000)

Page 6 of 6

