Contact
9573999849 (Mobile)
lbalapraneethreddy@karunya.
edu.in

www.linkedin.com/in/balapraneeth
(LinkedIn)

Top Skills
CCNA
Java
Computer Networking

Languages
Telugu (Professional Working)
Hindi (Elementary)
English (Limited Working)

Certifications
Cisco Certified Network Associate
Routing and Switching (CCNA
Routing and Switching)
Machine Learning with Python
IBM Node-red
Cisco Certified Entry Network
Technician
Palo Alto Networks Security
Adminstrator

Honors-Awards
TEKHACK-KARUNYA

 

 

 

Bala Praneeth Reddy

Computer Science Graduate | CCNA | DevOps | Network and
Security Enthusiast|
Hyderabad

Summary
A person who strives to improve and develop new skills,  passionate
about latest technologies. Always accepts change and ready to learn
from others. My ultimate goal in life is to develop myself and make
an impact on others life and help them to get better in achieving their
dreams. On the verge to make a better society.

Experience

University for Information Science & Technology - Ohrid, Macedoni
DevOps Intern
August 2019 - September 2019 (2 months)
Macedonia,Europe
Providing brief insight into the project, it uses docker to virtualize the hardware
platform of the system and with the help of container technology a web-server
is developed to host web-applications while exposing the local domain name
by using ngrok application. All of this might look simple and easy; However,
the downside of this methodology is when the traffic to the web-application
increases causing the website to malfunction. 

In this case, by deploying our containers to the Kubernetes platform and
managing all the nodes through a single interface structure provided by
Cisco is a perfect choice. This solves the problem of scalability and provides
redundant applications when deployed into the production environments.
Integrating the Kubernetes cluster into the Application Centric Infrastructure
provided by Cisco enables the visibility of the nodes while performing the
distributed tasks given by the Master node. 

SMARTBRIDGE EDUCATIONAL SERVICES PRIVATE LIMITED
Machine Learning Intern
December 2018 - January 2019 (2 months)
Hyderabad Area, India
1. Learned various algorithms used in Machine Learning and worked on
preprocessing the real-time hospital dataset. 
Page 1 of 2

 

 

 

2. Worked with company Mentors to predict the prices of the house. 
3. Developed a chatbot for a Restaurant that provides customers with
assistance.

IBM
Teaching Assistant
December 2018 - December 2018 (1 month)
Hyderabad Area, India
1. Conducted a two-day Hackathon in Annamacharya Institute of Technology,
explained students about software-defined networking and cloud computing as
an overview.
2. Hands-on sessions on using the cloud services provided by IBM-Bluemix.
3. Training students on developing chat-bots using IBM-cloud which
responds to the queries of the user and Integrating them to social media web-
applications like Facebook.

New10s Online Shopping Pvt. Ltd.
Project Intern
March 2018 - May 2018 (3 months)
Coimbatore Area, India
1. Developed a web-server using a LAMP-stack in Raspberry pi (Open-suse)
and hosting of the web-application to the server.
2. Used NGROK to expose the localhost of the system to the public
applications.
3. Performed DDoS attack and crashed the site which helped to maintain
scalability during the testing process. 

Education
Karunya University
Bachelor of Technology, Computer Science · (2016 - 2020)

Sacred heart high school
SSC

Page 2 of 2

