Contact
FLAT NO.-54, POCKET-13,
PHASE-1, DWARKA, NEW DELHI
+919480100804 (Home)
gauravchatterjee07@gmail.co
m

www.linkedin.com/in/gaurav-
chatterjee-857813137 (LinkedIn)
gaurav-chatterjee.github.io/
(Personal)
machinelearningman.com (Blog)

Top Skills
Machine Learning
Deep Learning
Python

Certifications
NIT course certificate
Learning REST APIs
Managing Your Personal Finances
Jodi Glickman on Pitching Yourself
NPTEL online certification

Honors-Awards
Gold Medalist (B.TECH)
Free-ship award
Certificate of Merit from Internshala.
2nd Price in Geo-charades,

Publications
CRYPTOCURRENCY: A
COMPREHENSIVE ANALYSIS

 

 

 

Gaurav Chatterjee

Data Scientist @ Lumiq.ai | Deep Learning & Machine Learning
Researcher | Blogger | B.Tech gold medalist& M.Tech in CS
New Delhi

Summary
Hello, Ladies and Gentlemen. First of all Thank you for reaching out
to my profile! 

I am Gaurav Chatterjee, an M.Tech graduate from the Central
University of Karnataka. 

An ordinary guy who is extra enthusiastic about machine learning
and deep learning from the very beginning of his graduation.

I have bagged several achievements and proved that I am a
worthy candidate to do machine learning/ deep learning research.
I have done several projects on ML and published a paper on
cryptocurrency with the help of deep learning.

Currently, I am working as a Data Scientist at Lumiq.ai

I am also running a blogging website named -
machinelearningman.com to help my dear Machine Learning/ Deep
learning aspirants.

If you are interested in hiring me for a talk/seminar/webinar Or
consultation for your organization, you can contact me (E-mail ID
given in the online portfolio)  

Have a nice day. 

youtube    post      Resume     ML Blogs    Web portfolio
------------------------------------------------------------

Experience

Lumiq.ai
Data Scientist

Page 1 of 3

 

 

 

April 2020 - Present (5 months)
Delhi, India
Working as a Data Scientist at Lumiq.ai. Solving real-time problems with
Machine Learning & Deep Learning.

Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi
Associate Researcher
December 2019 - April 2020 (5 months)
New Delhi, Delhi, India
Worked on an Autism related problem in children which is undetected when
child is infant. Early stage detection is crucial. Detection of this problem is done
by Deep Learning.

IIT Hyderabad
Project Associate
September 2018 - December 2019 (1 year 4 months)
Hyderabad, Telangana, India
Hazardous Pothole detection using Deep Learning(YOLO). Multi Object
tracking in traffic surveillance on drone data(RetinaNet + DeepSort)

National Institute of Technology, Goa
Machine Learning Intern
May 2018 - July 2018 (3 months)
South Goa, Goa, India
Done a project using Recurrent neural network-LSTM. predicted the price of
Bitcoin, ethereum and Litecoin using different features along with correlation
coefficient between the cryptocurrencies.

Central University of Karnataka
Machine Learning
February 2018 - June 2018 (5 months)
Gulbarga, karnaraka
Examining some of the cryptocurrency like Bitcoin, Ethereum and predicting
the future rates of these cryptocurrency by training the machine in different
fileds like- past 10 year data & sentiment of social media.

SIT- Symbiosis Institute of Technology
Intern in symbiosis institute of computer studies and research
December 2017 - January 2018 (2 months)
Pune, Maharashtra, India

Page 2 of 3

 

 

 

My guide Dr. B.V Dhandra and I have worked on how Big data is connected
with Business intelligence and how hadoop aids Big data

Zultanite Technologies Pvt Ltd
Web Developer 
May 2017 - July 2017 (3 months)
Sushant lok phase-1,gurgaon
A hands on experience with zultanite technologies as a web developer and
Seo .

Education
Central University of Karnataka
Integrated M.Tech, Computer Science · (2018 - 2019)

Central University of Karnataka
Bachelor of Technology, Computer Science · (2014 - 2018)

Kendriya Vidyalaya
Intermediate, Science · (2010 - 2014)

Page 3 of 3

