 

 

Contact
1904 B, Woodmar Drive, Houghton,
MI49931
dennison@mtu.edu

www.linkedin.com/in/
jaisilrosedennison (LinkedIn)
github.com/RoseJaisil (Other)
www.kaggle.com/jaisilrose (Other)

Top Skills
Medical Image Processing
Matlab
Python(Medical image processing)

Languages
Telugu (Elementary)
English (Full Professional)
Malayalam (Professional Working)

Certifications
Intermediate Python for Data
Science
Fundamentals of Project planning
and Management
Intro to Machine Learning
Image Data Augmentation using
Keras
Deep Learning On-ramp

Honors-Awards
Grade 2 of Music
Value Education Workshop On
Leadership
Hackathon(Surgical Innovation)

Publications
Application Of Selective Region
Growing Algorithm In Lung Nodule
Segmentation
APPLICATION OF DECISION
TREE BASED SUPPORT VECTOR
MACHINE IN  LUNG NODULE
CLASSIFICATION

 

Jaisil Rose Dennison

Graduate Student| AI in medicine| Kaggler
Houghton

Summary
3D Medical image analysis for telesurgical vision system and
diagnostic purpose is my area of interest. With two internships and
two projects in hands relevant to medical image processing, I am
pursuing my master’s in computer engineering.           "Let your
innovation be with compassion and passion"

My passion for innovation is about medical image analysis. I fell in
love with this field of telesurgical vision after attending a workshop
conducted by LANCET Commission on Global Surgery for surgical
services in rural regions. I am in my pursuit to innovate for tele
surgical vision system.

Currently I am doing master’s in computer engineering with special
focus on image analysis. As a part of curriculum, I did courses and
projects related to medical image processing and image processing.
I had a chance to do Coop in Promaxo where I learned about 3D
medical image processing and python. 

I did my undergrad in Electronics and communication engineering
with a specialization in signal processing. The part of the curriculum
includes projects, seminar presentations and paper presentations
which enhanced my skills for real world problem. One of my favourite
projects is Lung cancer detection using decision tree based SVM
where I earned experience about image data manipulation, machine
learning. Presented two papers and got published in IEEE journal.
I had a two weeks internship training on image processing in UNIQ
technologies where I learned about image processing using matlab.

The most valuable achievement that I would say is the winning
in Hackathon conducted by LANCET Commission on Global
Surgery for surgical services in rural regions. We as a team named
'Lungathon'  presented about the lung cancer detection using
Decision tree based SVM algorithm and won the second place.

Page 1 of 3

 

 

 

I am also passionate about music and singing (gospel).

Experience

Michigan Technological University
1 year 8 months
Graduate Student
January 2019 - Present (1 year 8 months)
Houghton, Michigan, US

Learning Center Coach
September 2019 - December 2019 (4 months)
Houghton
Help students and peer in learning the electrical and electronics concepts.
Enjoying this work cause I love teaching while I am learning.

Grader
September 2019 - December 2019 (4 months)
Houghton, Michigan
Grader for the subject of Laser systems. Helping the staff in grading the
academic works like assignments of the student. Getting some experience in
the academic working environment and reinforcing my laser system concepts.

Promaxo
MRI Engineer Intern
January 2020 - April 2020 (4 months)
Oakland California
A new start in my field [ Medical Image Analysis ]. Got to engage with a vibrant
team where I had a chance to work on project.
Got some hands on experience in Python itk, mayavi libraries.
Got experience on 3D image registration using python.
Had a chance with team comprising people from different department.

Graduate Student Government at Michigan Technological University
Electrical and Computer Engineering Representative
October 2019 - January 2020 (4 months)
Houghton, Michigan

Uniq Technologies
Image Processing Intern
December 2016 - December 2016 (1 month)
Page 2 of 3

 

 

 

Coimbatore Area, India
Learnt hands on experience on matlab for image processing and part of it, we
as an intern team completed project titled ' Brain Tumor Detection using GUI'.

Education
Michigan Technological University
Master of Science - MS, Computer Engineering · (2019 - 2021)

Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences
B-Tech,  Electronics and Communications Engineering · (2014 - 2018)

Page 3 of 3

