 

 

 

Contact
pkasture2010@gmail.com

www.linkedin.com/in/priyanka-
kasture (LinkedIn)

Priyanka Kasture

Founder - Machine Learning India
Pune

Top Skills
Entrepreneurship
Social Media Marketing
Community Management

Languages
Spanish (Elementary)
English (Full Professional)
Hindi (Limited Working)

Certifications
Deep Learning and Computer Vision
Python Masterclass
Algorithms - Design and Analysis
Statistical Learning

Summary
Entrepreneurial, data-driven social media marketing strategist
with an excellent understanding of creation, management and
monetization of large online consumer-communities.

I am also the founder of Machine Learning India, India's leading
social media driven machine learning community with over 300,000
members.

I am obsessed with customers, with quality, and I love to apply
consumer-psychology methods and practices to marketing and
branding.

I specialize in: Content marketing, social media analytics, online
brand strategy, business story-telling, consumer-psychology, online
community management, influencer and affiliate marketing.

Speaking Enagagments: PICT, Vishwakarma IoIT, Sinhgad COE
and Cummins COE, TomTom India, Securly Software, Globant India
and GS Labs.

Get in touch with me on: pkasture2010@gmail.com.

Experience

Machine Learning India
2 years 6 months
Content Strategist
April 2018 - Present (2 years 5 months)
Pune, Maharashtra
- Single handedly created and successfully monetizing Machine Learning
India, India's biggest, social-media driven, AI and ML community, with over
300,000 members.

Page 1 of 3

 

 

 

- Hacked the growth of the online-community, resulting in the addition of
25,000 - 30,000 new members to the community, every month.
- Generating content marketing strategies that are resulting in a cumulative
reach of 5,50,000 to 6,00,000, distinct people per week.
- Creating appealing design assets to construct a strong brand-image in the
minds of the members of the community.
- Collaborating with various content creators, researchers and influential
personalities in the AI/ML niche to boost the growth of the community on all
platforms.

Founder
March 2018 - Present (2 years 6 months)
Pune, Maharashtra, India
Machine Learning India (MLI), is a thriving community of 300,000 ardent -
artificial intelligence enthusiasts across India and the globe. The goal of MLI is
to reduce the skill-gap in India, by creating a vibrant AI ecosystem and talent
pool; thereby leading our country to have a significant take in the global AI
revolution. To pursue the same, MLI intends to democratize quality technical
education and make it available to all.

MLI is present on Instagram, Telegram, Linkedin, Twitter and YouTube.

The Apprentice Project - TAP
Course Facilitator
August 2018 - February 2020 (1 year 7 months)
Pune Area, India
Served as a Visual-Arts facilitator at iTeachSVT School, Hadapsar, under
The Apprentice Project, which is a Teach For India fellow led initiative, that
connects skilled, motivated individuals to underprivileged children through an
immersive mentorship program.

TechGig
Influencer
August 2018 - November 2018 (4 months)
India
Served as a social media influencer for TechGig's Geek Goddess Campaign
by deploying digital marketing methodologies, to increase campaign
awareness.

Surge, One Bit Technology
Technology Evangelist

Page 2 of 3

 

 

 

September 2018 - October 2018 (2 months)
Pune Area, India
Served as an AI Evangelist and Community Manager at Surge AI Labs (SAIL).

Education
University of Pune
Bachelor's Degree, Information Technology · (2015 - 2019)

Modern Education Society's Nowrosjee Wadia College Arts,
Science, Pune 01
Junior College, Electronics · (2013 - 2015)

Page 3 of 3

