Contact
sunny.mishra0389@gmail.com

www.linkedin.com/in/sunny-mishra
(LinkedIn)
sunnymishra.com (Blog)

Top Skills
Node.js
Java
Architectural Design

 

 

 

Sunny Mishra

Senior Developer | Storyteller
Bengaluru

Summary
An Engineer by qualification, a Software Developer by profession
and a Storyteller by passion. I have more than a decade worth of
work experience in Backend engineering and system design. 

I am not using LinkedIn to find a job. Since 2018 my mission on
the LinkedIn platform is to connect with junior Engineers and guide
and mentor them to become more employable and productive at
work. This involves one - to - one guidance over chat and publishing
daily posts. These Daily LinkedIn posts contain a piece of advice or
productivity ideas for software engineers, in the form of a story.

Experience

Envestnet | Yodlee India
Senior Member of Technical Staff
May 2016 - Present (4 years 4 months)
Bangalore
• Individual contributor and responsible for customer facing product modules.
• Rewrote several APIs for launch of flagship product PFM (Personal Finance
Manager).
• Written batch tool for migrating millions of existing user’s data from old site to
new site.
• Built engineer’s productivity tools at work in spare time using Perforce Sdk.

ThoughtFocus Technologies
Team Lead | Senior Java Developer
August 2013 - May 2016 (2 years 10 months)
Bangalore
• Implemented real-time ERP integration for eCommerce product with the core
product.
• Led team of 8 engineers for driving Customization efforts for eCommerce
product Gensuite.
• Written batch job tools to bulk load nightly CSV feed files and Linked SQL
server to DB servers.

Page 1 of 2

 

 

 

• Implemented Export document (Pdf, Excel) functionality by integrating with
Apache POI, iText and Velocity template.
• Integrated application with Auth0, an OAuth based SaaS tool for
authentication and Authorization module for User entity.
• Won Best engineer award for 2015.

MindTree Ltd.
Module Lead Developer
January 2012 - August 2013 (1 year 8 months)
Bangalore
• Developed end-to-end Single page application (SPA web-app) for client
OpenText, including UI widgets in Javascript, Spring based MVC backend, and
MySql database design. 
• Written RestFul APIs for Android app (Genapp). Redesigned backward
compatibility implementation of APIs for various versions of this Mobile app.
• Won best engineer award for 2012 for the Product vertical from Client
OpenText.

Oracle
Software developer
August 2008 - December 2011 (3 years 5 months)
Mumbai Area, India
• Implemented rules engine flow for the Citibank EMEA Netbanking product.
• Participated in architecture change to implement Internationalization of few
Citibank JFP regional product modules.
• Led Netbanking Go-live Engineering Support for Citibank Turkey division.
Received appreciation from Client for leading efforts, client interaction and
quick turnaround.

Education
Jawaharlal Institute of Technology, MP., India
Bachelor of Engineering - BE, Computer Science

St. Karen's High School, Patna

Page 2 of 2

