 

 

Contact
pushker@pushker.org

www.linkedin.com/in/pushker
(LinkedIn)
www.pushker.org (Personal)

Top Skills
Bioinformatics
Computational Biology
R

Languages
Spanish (Limited Working)
English (Native or Bilingual)

Certifications
AWSome Day: AWS Cloud Training
C++ and Object Oriented
Programming
AWS Fundamentals Specialization
Big Data & Hadoop
Python 3 Programming
Specialization

Honors-Awards
Technology Recognition Award
Genomics & Data Science - Platform
Award
People Spotlight
Predictive Analytics Challenge -
2016
Genomics & Data Science - Platform
Award

Publications
Meta-analysis to test the association
of HIV-1 nef amino acid differences
and deletions with disease
progression
Genome architecture and evolution
of bacterial pathogens
Data driven decisions for accelerated
plant breeding

 

Pushker Ravindra

Data Science | Engineering | Analytics
Bengaluru

Summary
B.Tech. from IIT Kanpur, Ph.D. from UCD Ireland and Executive
General Management from IIM Bangalore. 13+ years of experience
at international R&D organizations across academia, startups,
and MNCs. Successfully transformed multiple projects to Agile
and implemented DevOps / DataOps. Passionate about the best
practices in data science & engineering, internal employee up-
skilling via Data/Digital Fluency, and external talent development
via data science outreach. Currently, leading Data Science &
Engineering team at Bayer Crop Science, Bangalore, and enabling
data modernization, automation of data pipelines, to build enterprise
data assets for crop science.

Experience

Bayer Crop Science
2 years 1 month
Data Science & Engineering Lead
July 2020 - Present (2 months)
Bengaluru, Karnataka, India
- Leading Data Science & Engineering team. 
- Promoting best practices in data science & engineering, internal employee
up-skilling, and external talent development via data science outreach.
- Leading Data/Digital Fluency, the internal employee up-skilling program
where they get trained in latest data science skills.

Data Engineering Lead
January 2020 - June 2020 (6 months)
Bangalore
- Led Data Engineering team to enable data modernization and automated
data workflows via data engineering solutions.

Data Analytics Lead
August 2018 - January 2020 (1 year 6 months)
Bangalore

Page 1 of 5

 

 

 

Comparison of prokaryotic diversity
at offshore oceanic locations
reveals a different microbiota in the
Mediterranean Sea
The silencing of pseudogenes

- Led Data Analytics team, building analytics solutions including predictive and
prescriptive analytics.
- As Data Fluency Lead, mentored 200+ employees and promoted external
talent development via data science outreach to 1000+ postgraduate students.

Monsanto
Data Analytics Lead
July 2013 - August 2018 (5 years 2 months)
Bangalore, India
Data Analytics Lead, Data Scientist, Computational Biology Scientist, Data
Fluency Lead, Project/People Manager, Agile Transformation Lead

- Led Data Fluency, the data science up-skilling program for internal
employees and mentored 200+ people from IT (R&D, Breeding), Data Science,
Digital Foundation, Shared Services and Competitive Intelligence groups.
- As an Agile Transformation Lead, successfully transformed multiple projects
to Agile - Scrum / Kanban and managed in Jira. Used Xtreme Programming
concepts such as Pair Programming, Code review and Unit Testing.
- Implemented data science best practices such as coding best practices,
documentation, packaging, version control and followed DevOps / DataOps to
deliver sustainable data products.
- Designed and developed robust, relational and normalized databases
containing more than 1 billion rows on MySQL / PostgreSQL RDBMS for 10+
data products.
- Delivered cross-functional data science projects for Yield / Microbial Traits,
Biologics, Genomics & Data Science and R&D IT functions across India and
USA.
- Coordinated internship program for 10+ students from premier institutes (IIT/
IIIT/NIT) and mentored 5 students.
- Developed an automated microbial risk assessment pipeline for the $300
million BioAg Alliance (a cross-industry collaboration between Monsanto and
Novozymes) and automated generation of USDA permit reports.
- Part of team that organizes Data Innovator, a monthly cross-functional
Data Science hackathon for collaborative learning and solving regional data
challenges.
- Introduced Data Science to 1000+ biotechnology postgraduate students in
Bangalore to develop external talent.
- Received 25+ program, platform, technology / focused / special recognition,
iCARE and cross-functional awards.

Page 2 of 5

 

 

 

Genome Life Sciences
Scientist - II
March 2011 - March 2013 (2 years 1 month)
Chennai, India
Scientist, Head (Software Development), Project/Reporting Manager

- Head (Software Development) for a web-based next generation sequencing
data product, developed using Catalyst framework, handling Illumina GA/
HiSeq, Roche 454 and ABI SOLiD platforms.
- Supervised design and development of mRNA Sequencing (mRNA-seq),
Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS), Exome sequencing (Exome-seq) and
Methylome-seq pipelines for all platforms.
- Supervised service projects on de novo assembly of carrot genome and
transcriptome analysis of zebrafish.
- Contributed to writing grant proposals for various grant agencies such as
Federal Business Opportunities (FBO).
- Contributed to business development activities such as revamping the whole
website of Genome (GIC), USA.

University College Dublin
Graduate Student
April 2006 - September 2010 (4 years 6 months)
Dublin, Ireland
Supervisors: Prof. Denis C. Shields and Dr. Jean-Marc Jacqué

- Performed meta-analysis of more than 3,000 HIV-1 nef proteins in 582
subtype B HIV-infected patients from different disease progressions. 
- Surveyed protein disorder in 80,000 proteins from 2,500 viruses to
demonstrate that protein disorder varies very strikingly between and also
within viral families. 
- Investigated the presence of 150 eukaryotic linear motifs (ELMs) in 1,600
eukaryotic viruses to demonstrate that viruses are enriched with short linear
motifs.

Universidad Miguel Hernández
Research Fellow
July 2003 - March 2006 (2 years 9 months)
Alicante, Spain
Supervisors: Prof. Francisco Rodríguez-Valera and Dr. Alex Mira

Page 3 of 5

 

 

 

- Led Bioinformatics software development for 2 European Commission
projects related to Metagenomics - Gemini (Gene mining of metagenomes for
novel enzymes and therapeutics) and Miracle (Microbial marine communities
diversity: from culture to function) involving more than 10 EU countries.
- Worked with multidisciplinary teams of summer interns, Postgraduate or PhD
students, Postdocs and Professors from life sciences domain and managed up
to 4 projects simultaneously.
- Investigated evolution of genome size and architecture of more than 200
bacterial genomes (8 publications).
- Designed and developed Micro-Mar: world’s biggest marine microbial
biodiversity database along with a few other databases – IWoCS, RISSC and
RNAGeneTracer.
- Installation, configuration, troubleshooting, administration of Linux, Apache
HTTP and MySQL database servers.

Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology
Research Fellow
January 2002 - June 2003 (1 year 6 months)
Delhi, India
Supervisors: Prof. Samir K. Brahmachari and Dr. Debasis Dash

- Part of a team of undergraduate students from IITK invited by Prof. Samir K.
Brahmachari (Founding Director, IGIB; Former Director General, CSIR) to be
consulted for a few challenging Bioinformatics projects at IGIB.
- Team Lead for India’s first commercial Bioinformatics software product by
CSIR - PLHoST (Peptide Library Based Homology Search Tool for Functional
Annotation), branding by EY and marketed by Jalaja Technologies.
- Designed and developed CoPS (Comprehensive Peptide Signature
Database) with 12,076 invariant peptide signatures derived from 52 bacterial
genomes (Prakash et al., Bioinformatics, 2004).
- Designed a software to schedule oligonucleotide synthesis by ABI DNA
Synthesizer (ABI 3900) that requires an optimization of each nucleotide to be
used for each run of the machine.

Education
University College Dublin, Ireland
Doctor of Philosophy, Bioinformatics

Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore

Page 4 of 5

 

 

 

Executive General Management Program, General Management

Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur
Bachelor of Technology, Electrical Engineering

Page 5 of 5

