 

 

Contact
BANGALORE, INDIA
+919786436525 (Home)
rhel7.vivek@gmail.com

www.linkedin.com/in/dr-vivek-
yoganand-82a20264 (LinkedIn)
scholar.google.fr/citations
(Personal)
vivekyoganand.github.io/
(Personal)

Top Skills
Red Hat Certified Engineer (RHCE)
Python
IT Security Policies

Languages
English
Tamil
Kannada

Certifications
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
Developer 2020 Certified Associate
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure 2019
Architect Associate
Infrastructure Foundations 2020
Associate
Verified International Academic
Qualifications

Honors-Awards
Best Physique - FORM III Cert.
- National Level participation -
Sportsmen Merit Quota.
Cross Country - FORM III Cert.
- National Level participation -
Sportsmen Merit Quota.
Tcsworld10k Procamrunning
IT Champions - 2017 "Technical
Lead of the Quarter"
Tcsworld10k Procamrunning

Publications

 

Dr. Vivek Yoganand

PhD in Artificial Neural Network
Bengaluru

Summary
I  ❤️ Linux ‍
Working as Infra Dev Specialist in Cognizant,
Being part of different technology providers/organizations like
Data Center services  to a Value Added Distributor and a System
integrator has helped in shaping up my career do address diverse
markets, people and technology. Managing organizational IT
compliance. 
Strengths : IT Strategy, Team Building, Vendor Relationship
Management and Negotiation skills.
Expert in UNIX flavors and other domains like Windows, Network,
Security, VAPT, DevOps, Ansible, Satellite Server, Azure, AWS,
Kuberneters, Docker, Podman.

Redhat Certified Engineer in Linux RHCE – 7.0 

Extensively involved in, 
★ Build the Infra and Testing Security Level policy 
★ Deployment of various Application 
★ Implementation of RBI Guidance 
★ SOP/POA Review and Approval
★ Security Patch management & Version Controller

Experience

Cognizant
Infra Dev Specialist 
May 2020 - Present (4 months)
Bengaluru, Karnataka, India
★ Azure DevOps 
★ Kubernetes Development
★ Micro services Monitoring  

Page 1 of 5

Design of Accident Detection System
Based On Vehicular Networks and
Infrastructure Networks for Future
Generation Vehicles.
Face detection approach from video
with the aid of KPCM and improved
neural network classifier
Multiview Face Tracking In Videos
Using Clustering And Tracklet
Linking Technique
Mobile Image Mining for Granite
Quality  Detection 
Region Growing and Modified Neural
Network Classifier Based Face
Detection Technique from Video

Patents
Real time health care system  for
elderly people using fuzzy  single
input single output model

 

 

 

IBM
Subject Matter Expert - Employee ID: FRE26928
February 2020 - May 2020 (4 months)
Bengaluru Area, India
★ Team work and leadership skills  with team of L1/L2 engineers to prepare
them for L3 support activities in future.
★ Excellent working knowledge on the Filesystem and Logical volume
management
★ Strong knowledge on RHEL administration 
★ Strong Troubleshooting skills on RHEL.
★ Incident / Change / Problem management skill on Ticketing tools like
service-now
★ Vendor management to concluding RCA and Corrective Action
★ Good experience on yum configurations and RHN network troubleshooting.
★ Involved in preparing to automate tasks with programming (Shell scripting)
or configuration management tools (Ansilbe, puppet), etc. is preferred.
★ Experience in user administration / management
★ Knowledge and hands on experience on NAS and Samba Configuration.
★ Hands on experience on Version control systems.
★ Hands on experience on kickstart and pxe-boot installations.
★ Disk Administration with LVM Suite.
★ Expertise on file system management (Linux LVM, CFS, NFS, Samba)
★ Configuration of TCP/LAN Environment with NIS, NIS, NFS, DNS & DHCP
★ Good remote infrastructure troubleshooting skills.
★ Client interaction as per project needs
★ Excellent Customer handling skills
★ Excellent listening skills & ability to communicate clearly and fluently in
English.
★ Good knowledge on AD and SSSD.

Ujjivan Small Finance Bank Limited
3 years 4 months
Patch Manager - IT Employee ID: UJJ19210
May 2018 - January 2020 (1 year 9 months)
Karnataka, India
★★ Patch Manager - IT in Banking (Bangalore) Expert in Patching & Version
Controller. Including Troubleshooting of various domains LINUX, AIX,
SOLARIS, WINTEL, Middleware Patching, Database, Network, Firewall,
Support Applications.

Page 2 of 5

 

 

 

★★ All the approved patches deploying in all production servers N-1 on
monthly basis as per OEM Releases and End-points.

★ Building the Infra and Testing Security Level Policy. 
★ Deployment of various Applications & Troubleshooting in Cloud Infra.
★ Excellent troubleshooting skills both with hardware and software in patching
environment.
★ Security Patch Management and Version Controller.
★ Work with engineering teams to understand infrastructure requirements,
provide insight and directions to build and scale on micros service
orchestration engine.
★ Establish and ensure infrastructure standards like security, reliability,
availability, and scalability procedures are designed and maintained.
★ Essential responsibilities towards build and maintain practices for
deployment, monitoring and operations for building infrastructure capability.
★ Ability to troubleshoot for complex software and infrastructure issues with
RCA
★ Monitor applications and services within the environments, take actions to
resolve issues and implement strategies to prevent future occurrences.
★ Active participant in agile process like Scrum Kanban etc.
★ Lead, design and provide infrastructure solutions across teams.
★ Responsible for implementation of infrastructure practices as part of CI and
CD.
★ Innovative thinking and introduce new features to operations of delivering
microservice solutions.

Assistant Manager - IT  Employee ID: UJJ19210
October 2016 - April 2018 (1 year 7 months)
Karnataka, India
★★ Asst. Manager at Ujjivan Small Finance  Bank Limited. Worked closely
with Infra stability team and IT Security Team to ensure all security aspects
as per the RBI ground guidelines. Expert in Linux, Solaris, AIX, Middleware
patching & troubleshooting.

MarkOne Technologies
Sr. System Engineer Employee ID: MT012
December 2012 - February 2016 (3 years 3 months)
Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India
★ Handling Servers 6000+ on Data Center Infrastructure.
★ Installation, Configuration and Troubleshooting of Red Hat Enterprise Linux
in various flavors.

Page 3 of 5

 

 

 

★ Basic Knowledge on running and writing Shell scripting.
★ Managing Process management, system Performance, Virtual memory,
Disk & CPU utilization.
★ Creating the YUM server repository.
★ Data Compressing, Backup and recovery using tar command.
★ Configuring SAN Storage and managing through Disk management.
★ Monitoring the performance of the server and networks using CA-Spectrum
and Nagios.
★ LVM Management, Skilled on Data Redundancy technology RAID (0, 1, 5)
and User & Group 
administration.
★ Configuring DNS, DHCP, NFS, FTP, SAMBA, SSH, LDAP and Mail Server.
★ Deployment and maintenance of Linux systems and application software.
★ Administering software and updating packages.
★ Interact with vendors and applying Kernel, firmware, OS Patches.
★ Shell scripting for job automation and monitoring.
★ SAN & NAS LUN Management through Linux Native Multipath with File
Systems (EXT4, NFS, XFS).
★ Running and Analysis of EMC Grabs for Heterogeneous host platforms.
★ Virtual Machine Implementation using technology Red Hat KVM and
VMWare.
★ Created clones and templates of Virtual Machines and Migrating VM’s using
Vmotion.
★ System diagnostics, driving Root Cause Analysis (RCA) and Preventative
action and SOP doc.
★ Administration of High Availability Cluster using Red Hat Cluster in Linux
platform.
★ Taking care of CA-Service desk tickets (Incident & Request) related to
various issues and addressing 
with adherence to SLA.
★ Worked on day to day trouble shooting for both User and Server issues.
★ Rotated 24/7 on-call support.

Education
Anna University
Doctor of Philosophy - PhD, Artificial Neural Network, Computer Vision,
Machine Learning  · (2014 - 2019)

Page 4 of 5

 

 

 

Bharathiar University
Master of Business Administration - MBA, International
Business · (2011 - 2013)

SRM University
M.Tech, Information Technology, Multimedia Technology · (2009 - 2011)

Jayam College of Engineering and Technology
B.E, Computer Science and Engineering · (2005 - 2009)

Page 5 of 5

